We now kind of enter the second part of this module
you could say. Thus far, we had a thorough look at how we can send HTTP requests, how we can handle errors,
how we can work with the data we get back if we don't have errors and so on.
Now let me dive in the a little bit more advanced parts of the Angular HttpClient and how you can
configure your requests and which kind of different responses you get back and so on.
Let's start with headers - when sending an HTTP request
and of course we are configuring our requests in the post service,
so this is the place to look at now.
So when configuring these HTTP requests, you set things like the URL you send the request
to or in the case of a post request,
you also set the data you want to attach to your request.
Now of course, sometimes you also need to set some special headers, for example when you have a back-end
that requires authorization and looks for an authorization header or if you want to set your own content
type or you need to attach a custom header because your API you are sending the request to needs it.
Now setting your own headers is extremely simple,
any HTTP request method, no matter if it's post or get or delete or patch or whatever, any of these methods
has an extra last argument,
so in the case of get it's the second argument, in the case of post it would be the third argument, which
is an object where you can configure that request and there, you can configure a bunch of stuff as you
can see and we'll start with the headers here and headers now takes a headers object which allows you
to set the headers you want to send. To be precise, it's a HTTP headers object which you
need to import from @angular/common/http,
so you need to add this import at the top
and this allows you to create a new instance of this object with the new keyword and to this object,
you can pass a Javascript object here with the object literal notation where you can have key-value
pairs of your headers and headers are of course key-value pairs.
So for example here you could set your custom header, in case your API would need that, to hello or whatever
you need,
you can set any header, any HTTP header pair here.
If I do this and I save that and I now do try to fetch some posts, I fetch posts as before
but if we have a look at the network tab, let's actually do that again with the cleared network tab and
we have a look at our request here,
if we inspect the headers, you see here on the request headers, there is this custom header hello and that's
the custom header I attached
and it's as simple as that.
You can add as many headers as you want with this simple approach by simply setting the headers config
option here to a new HTTP headers object to which you pass your headers in an object literal with
a key-value notation.